This directory holds the developer tools to maintain the language translations.
These were created during development of OpenEMR version 3.0.2

The collectConstants.pl script can be used to collect all of the constants
from the openemr source code.  This script can also be used to find only the
new constants.  Instructions are included in the file.

The first list of constants produced by the collectConstants.pl script are
in the initial_constants_3-0-1.txt file.

The initial empty language translation spreadsheet,
blank_spreadsheet_3-0-1.tsv,  that contains the constants was also created
by the collectConstants.pl script.  This spreadsheet has been uploaded to
Google Docs to allow collaborative data entry of languages translations.

The Google Docs spreadsheet after conversion to tsv format is kept in the
current_spreadsheet.tsv file. Conversion is done by exporting spreadsheet
from google docs (ods format). Then, open this file in Open Office and 
select File->Save as. For 'Save as type:' select 'TEXT CSV (.csv)', toggle
on 'Edit Filter Setting', and change filename extension to .tsv. If asked
for confirmation select 'Yes'. Then select 'Unicode (UTF-8)' for 'Character
set', select {Tab} for 'Field delimiter', and select nothing (make blank by
removing the " character) for 'Text delimiter', and then click 'OK'. 

The buildLanguageDatabase.pl builds the foreign language SQL tables dumpfile
for the lang_languages, lang_constants, and lang_definitions tables from the above
current_spreadsheet.tsv file.

The stableLanguage.sql holds the tested and stable translation tables dumpfile.
(no production quality script yet)

The currentLanguage.sql holds current and possibly unstable translation
tables dumpfile.

To insert these translation tables into your OpenEMR (please note, this
is currently experimental and will delete your current translation tables),
download the sql dumpfile to your computer. Then in OpenEMR go to 
admin -> Database -> Databases -> openemr -> SQL and click 'Browse'
button at the 'Or location of the textfile:' field. Select the sql dumpfile
you downloaded, then click 'Go' button.
